well every day we're bombarded with
statistics on this and that and tonight
the latest entry in my new segment
called consider this where I dig behind
the numbers to give you useful
information that might just improve the
quality of your life
so tonight consider this forty percent
of all adults in this country between
the ages of twenty six and forty have at
least one tattoo that's 45 million
Americans sporting some body ink the
tattoo boom is probably about twenty
years old now and that means that
tattoos are starting to age as well and
that got me to wondering how do tattoos
hold up over time well it turns out as
you age and your body changes your
tattoos do to everyone in the nursing
home is gonna have one that's a two
artist karen iffen having a laugh about
the body ink she painstakingly places on
people like Meredith who's no novice at
this this is her fifth time getting one
by one of my thigh I have one on my
wrist one on my back Meredith's got her
first tattoo at 18 she's in her mid 30s
now and she's here at lark tattoo having
a small tattoo on her upper arm covered
by a larger tattoo and it wasn't just
about size there were not sharp lines
anymore it was very messy go to a
dermatologist and you'll learn the
medical reason for that well we get some
breakdown in the elastic fibers and the
collagen that are the supporting network
framework that holds our skin that's
probably not the first thought that I
have on my mind it's just like do I like
it now does it look good now kara says
many clients just have the redone or
simply add to the collection and she
says women with plans of starting a
family or who are realistic about the
aging process might consider placing it
on the ribcage which along with the
wrist is a top spot today for a woman's
body it's not like ladies come in and
say you know can you put a portrait on
my stomach a lot of times they're
getting something like on their side it
might be organic so if it does stretch
it doesn't go back to the same shape
that it did it and people like Meredith
might not even care what their tattoos
look like when they're old and gray
because by then they may come with an
escape clause when they're trying to
create more biodegradable Tet
Inc which are encapsulated in beads
because the laser hits it breaks up the
beads and then your body heats up the
pigmentation more readily but for now
since lasers have trouble eliminating
some of the colors tattoos remain pretty
much a lifetime commitment and Kara says
that's a good thing personally for me I
look at someone who's got old faded
tattoos and it's like that's marking
times and places in their life and it's
just like they've lived their life and
they made the most of it and here they
are and they've got it on their sleeve
like literally and there is some regret
out there though 5% of the US population
has covered a tattoo with another tattoo
and more than one in ten either will or
have had a tat removed